I've prepared a little string
with the slipknot in the end here,
which I will . . .
I'm going to tie it through these areas
where I've made
the back cornering impressions there.
[Videographer}: One of the reasons
I wanted to move a little closer
is because when you are working
with the string it had a real nice pop
when you tighten it-it's satisfying.
[Harry Campbell]: That's good.
That's going to hold things
in shape while I do, while I do some . . .
sort of refining of
the shape of these head caps.
Okay.
First I'm going to push back
that way, and that way,
widen that a little bit,
and then flatten this head cap
a little bit, which again you start to see
a real traditional sort of look of a leather binding.
With a little book like this it doesn't take much.
Same thing here.
Push that out a little. This way, that way.
Flatten it out like so.
And I think at this point
I'll just get rid of this string
'cause it's . . . again, it's a very. . . .
I might want to work on those areas.
No, actually that looks pretty good.
I think I might just leave it.
That looks good. Okay.
Now, the only part that is adhered
so far is right. . . .
I haven't put the cloth joints or the sewing slips
down or anything, and I won't do that right now.
What I'm going to do is just rub this spine
down one more time, make sure it's in contact,
and then the. . . .
I'll do it right here
so you can see what I'm doing.
I would normally just do this
over the edge here
I will just slide it out here. Okay.
I'll square up these edges just a little bit.
Again, the leather is still wet, you know,
and the paste is still wet,
and it's all very moldable at this point.
It's starting to dry out.
You can see the color coming back.
But, you know, if you touch it,
it is cold and damp.
And at this point, I'm ready to then just...
I'll insert some blotters to absorb moisture
inside the boards
and put blotters on the outside
and then put it under weight
pretty much until it's dry.
I mean, after a little while
I'll come back, and I'll actually open it up
and make sure that the hollow tube
inside there is still functioning
like a hollow tube.
When you use thin paper for those hollow tubes,
you have to worry about the adhesive
actually going through it so . . .
I'm not too worried but . . .
I've got those blotter sheets
right up to the joint in there.
Okay.
I'll put this there.
[Inaudible] piece here
I could overlap it all the way,
but I just want to be able to see it
when I put the weight on top.
Boards.
And this is to . . .
not only hold everything in place
but to keep it in a flat plane
while it's drying
because as . . . it wants to distort
as its drying, you know,
stretching and shrinking.
It can do that, it can go through all of that
if it's unrestrained, it'll just be very cockley.
So this will sit here than for a little while
- maybe an hour so -
before I do anything else with it.
And then, after that,
I'll probably be able to open the boards
and actually paste down the cloth hinges
and the sewing slips, and then basically
it's cased in at that point.
The last thing I'll do then is
come back and paste these in place
on the inside of these boards
and cover the joint area.
[Interviewer]: So if you put a title on it
would that be . . . I assume you'd hand stamp it.
Would you hand stamp it
onto a separate piece of goldleaf?
And would you put that on by hand,
or would you use . . . or would you
put that in the stamper?
[Harry Cambell]: I'll probably use . . .
I'll probably set up some type in the hot stamper
back there and . . . very small type . . .
and stamp onto a . . . maybe
a dark red piece of leather,
very thin leather that I use for labels,
and then I'll have panel lines on the spine
in a traditional sort of arrangement.
And near the top will be . . .
between two of those panel lines
will be this red label
with the gold title on it . . .
if we put a title on it at all.
It may not have had one,
or it may have said "Journal"
or something like that.
[Interviewer]: And it looked as though
the original one was actually scratched on.
[Harry Campbell]: Yes that's right:
"SS Cox Zanesville Ohio USA," it says.